- Research Interest Form submission: You need to select any 3 areas of Research Interest based on which the academic team will assign a Thesis Supervisor.
- Research Topic Submission: You need to submit this form for the approval of project topic post which you can start working on the Research Proposal
- Research Proposal: You need to submit this proposal to get started with  your Master's thesis


 - Two main phases in the Master's program: Research Methodology phase and the Thesis phase
- Please give utmost importance to Time Management and understand that making timelines and following them in a way that you don't falter on the deadlines is absolutely necessary
- Do Not Plagiarise as it may result in unpleasant repercussions and is against the ethical way of carrying out a dissertation


</b>List of Domains
To give your Research journey a head start, please find the list of areas that you can consider for Research:</b>
 

1. Computer Vision    

Semantic Segmentation
Image Classification
Object Detection
Contrastive Learning
Image Generation
2. Natural Language Processing

Language Modelling
Question Answering
Machine Translation
Sentiment Analysis
Text Generation
Speech Recognition
3. Transfer Learning
4. Recommendation Systems
5. Explainable AI
6. Generative AI
- Generative Adversarial Networks
- Variational Autoencoders (VAEs)
- ChatGPT
- DALL-E
- BERT, Transformers
- GPT-3, GPT-4
- DALL-E
- Stable Diffusion
7. Deep Learning
- Artificial Neural Networks 
- Convolutional Neural Networks
- Recurrent Neural Networks
8. Reinforcement Learning
9. Classification
10. Regression
11. Time Series Forecasting
12. Predictive Analytics
13. Multitask Learning
14. Optimization Techniques

What is Research?
- Re + Search = Research
- Re = again
- search = To Probe Closely

- Research = an iterative, careful, systematic study and investigation in some of knowledge, undertaken to establish new facts or priniciples
- Research is a careful and systematic investigation of a problem that can help you reach a new and meaningful conclusion.
- According to dictionary definition:  reearch is a systematic investigation and a detailed study of subjects in order to establish facts and reach a new conclusion.

According to Clifford Woody, components of research: 
A. Defining and redefining problems
B. Formulating a hypothesis
C. Collecting, organizing and evaluating data
D. Making deductions and reaching conclusions
E. Carefully testing the conclusions - to determine whether they fit the formulated hypothesis

Systematic Investigation:

A. Collect the information to identify teh factors influencing the problem
B. Formulated the problem and generated hypothesis
C. Constructed a checklist and obtained information from a sample
D. Analysed the colleccted data and interpreted the results

Research Methodology: huge amount of data generation by machines, software applications and sensors. this coupled along with the  associated complexity of the research environment such as that the ability to understand and effectively use data to make useful decisions is becoming an essential task of the data intensive society. The tools and the technology used in data analysis are evolving rapidly to cope up with large volume of data, even after all this some data scientists lack sufficient understanding of how to solve problems effectively using data science techniques.As a result they arrive at a solution that fails to adequaely address the problem at hand.
so using reseach methodology we can rule out unnecessary methods and choose only the most appropriate methods and steps to solve the problem effeciently

-- Significance of Research:
-------------------------------
- All progress is born of enquiry, doubt is often better than over-confidence as it leads to enquiry and an enquiry leads to inventions-- famous quote by hassan maxim
- Research is important in our daily life as it provides information that allows us to make informed decisions. 
- Research thus helps in improving the quality of the life because its a self-learning experience. It helps us find out important things connected to the research subjects 
- All above points re-inforce the significance of research. Research is previlant in all of the fields 

Research plays an important role:

- In the field of technology, such as the mobile sector, the manufacturing sector, the service sector, etc. 
- In deciding the economic policies and budget of a country
- In solving various operational and planning problems in business.
- In the field of data science, by enabling scientists to extract meaningful insights from data using efficient tools and techniques
- In studying relationships and finding answers to various social problems 
- To disprove myths and support facts

Significance of Research in different fields:
A. Field of Technology -  mobile sector, manufacturing sector, agricultural sector, service sector, 
      ex: Video conference, Smart home automation using IoT using our mobile devices

B. Setting Economic Policies and Budgeting of a country - 
      ex: government budgets majorly depends on analysis of needs of the people and on the availability of the revenue and resources to meet those needs
         - it is most needed in this field is because cost of needs of the people has to be matched with probable revenes. Through this govt makes alternative policies and also examine the consequences of different alternatives
  Decision making may not be an actual part of the research but research supplies certain help policy makers in making the right decision
The plight of cultivaters, working conditions of the farmers, problems of big and small business/industry, even the defence services are the matters that requires research

C. Solving Operational and planning problems of business industries - Operating research and market research are considered crucial because the results can help in taking decisions properly
 Market research is the internal investigation of the structure and development of the market which helps in formualting efficient policies for production, purchase and sales
on the other hand operations research refers to application of logical and mathematical techniques to solve business problems like to minimize cost, maximize profit

D. Research helps in making logical business decisions  - Research concering demand of the product and its market factor has great utility in business. 
   If the firm knows future demand of the project, it is not difficult to adjust its supplies schedule keeping in the mind the limits of its capacity 
i.e., research replaces intuitive business decisions with more scientific and logical decisions

E. Field of Data Science: with many fold increase in amount of data generated it is important to store it properly whether it is stored in the structured way or an unstructured manner.
The role of data scientist is to read the data properly, extract maximum related information out of it, they need to which tools to use and when to use 
 Ex: Recommendation system

F. In Studying Social Relationships and finding answers to the problems - Its also a practical utility for social scientists to have the knowledge to do something better and in more efficient manner
Research in this fields focuses mainly on knowledge to solving practical problems. on one hand it helps in developing the body of principle that understands and predicts the range of human interactions
on the other hand it is now being looked for seeking practical guidance to solve immediate problems of human relations because of its social orientation

G. In Disproving myths and support facts -   Research is based on proper analysis of authentic available data. so there is no scope for any myth if it is proven using facts and actual informaiton


Prominent Fields of Research in DS and ML:
- Computer Vision - to make a computer understand what an image is ?
      A. Semantic Segementation - we have an image and we want to segement out some particular areas of the image
         ex: there is a person in the image and want to seperate that person's pixels out of the image so that we can understand.
             This is useful in the areas where you want to detect a person in an image or detect some other things like anamoly detection, detect an automobile on the road, speeding cameras where they can use image segmentation to segment out the vechile and number plates amd chekc whose vechile was over speeding.
      
      B. Image Super - Resolution - when u see an image and u zoom in more n more into the image, the pixel start blurring out.
         can we make a machine to understand that when we zoom in more n more, it shouldn't blur out, it should maintain the quality as the original image
         - Even used for upgrading the image from low resolution to high resolution image ex: older images in low resolution to good quality image to high resolution 

      C. Pose Estimation - It is used in augmented reality, it can be used to train robots, so from an image of a person doing some activity, you can recognize that activity using pose recongition system.
      whether he is running/walking/dancing you can understand it from pose recognition.

  - Natural Language Processing - making computer understand what we speak
                                  make understand what is the sentiment of the statement
                                  make understand what is the intent 
    
      A. Machine/ Language Translation - prominent research area. To make the computer understand and translate from one language to another
      
      B. Code Generation - can we make computer right the code itself? we humans start learning coding and do the code , write the code and debug it afterwards but can we make a machine do it end -to-end.

      C. Fake News Detection - we see lot of fake news in all social media platforms, can we make a machine to learn how to detect the fake news by itself and remove it from getting posted on the internet.
         how to understand the source of the news, understand the context where this is fake news that makes this research area lot more interesting 

 - Generative Models -  Machined trained to generate human faces virtually. This is to generate new things where we train our model to generate new things
       We can train model by using few poems and model can generate a new poem all by itself etc...
 
  - Play Games -  develop a model to beat the best grand masters as well

  - Build games using machine learning

  - Adversarial Attacks - whenever we find something, people will always try to find loopholes and do frauds. 
    can we build machine learning systems which are robust to such frauds happening, which are robust to such loopholes
    can we build a model in a way eventhough after changing a few pixels of the image, machine should be able to recognize perfectly

Objective of Research:
------------------------

A. Conducting a Market Research: 
     Why are you conducting market research?
      i. To find out the company's position in the Market
      ii. To find the competitors of the brand

Importance of defining the clear research objective is that these objectives define the scope of the research (or) what research has to be done?  
If your objective is too broad, then you spend too much time in collecting information and data which are not much relevant to you.
if your objective is more narrow, then you end up collecting less data which is not sufficient for concluding the final result.

So the main challenge is to define the appropriate research objectives. Below are the different ways to define the research objective:

A. Exploratoy Research Objective: To explore and achive new insights into a phenomenon. 
B. Descriptive Research Objective: To describe why an action has been taken
C. Casual or Explanatory Research Objective: To explain the cause and effect relation of a research question
D. Correlational research objective: To discover/establish a relationship between two or more aspects of a situation

There are four categories of research objectives:
--------------------------------------------------
Exploratory research objective: Its main purpose is to explore a phenomenon and gain new insights from it. For example, the following objectives direct you to explore the market:

To find the number of brands available in the market

To estimate the number of products within each brand 

2. Descriptive research objective: Its main purpose is to describe a particular action. For example, the following objectives direct you to describe your action:

To find out the reasons for the sale of a particular product by dealers

To find out why customers are opting for a particular product 

3. Causal research objective: It aims to explain the cause-and-effect relation in a research question. Hence, it is also known as the explanatory research objective. For example, the following objectives direct you to find the effect of a particular action:

The effect of a newly launched product on the market

The effect of an increased number of lanes or installation of solar lights on the number of road accidents

4. Correlational research objective: It aims to discover or establish a relationship between two aspects of a situation. For example, the following objectives establish either a positive or negative correlation:  

“Smoking leads to lung cancer.” (Positive correlation)

“Educated people commit crimes.” (Negative correlation)

A research objective needs to have the following SMART features: 
---------------------------------------------------------------
- Specific: It should be specific; this will save time and keep you on the correct path. 
ex: To analyse the impact of poverty is broader compared to "To study teh impact of poverty on the children between 3-16yrs of maharastra region between 2014 and 2019 period"
- Measurable: It should be measurable, i.e., it should quantify the targets and benefits. 
ex: how many children will participate in teh survey
   how many rural and urban areas will be covered
- Achievable: It should be such that you are able to attain it, considering the resources and time at your disposal, without compromising the quality. 
ex: 200km road cannot be built in 30days which is not achieveable
- Realistic: It should be real and practical so that it can be visualised and achieved.
ex: a resarch objective of in-depth interview with the stratergy department of apple company by an under graduate student is little un-reliastic
- Time-bound: It should be achievable within a specific time frame.


NOTE: The research questions and research objectives go hand in hand. Research questions are questions and research objectives are statements of intentions. There can be four ways to write research questions or research objective or both in your research proposal.

Only research objective: In this case, there is a statement that states, where your research is going.
eg: To analyse the impact of biometric attendance system in a government job.
Only research question: In this case, the same thing is shown in question format.
eg: What will be the effect of introducing biometric attendance system in a government job?
A Research question with several research objectives: In this, there is a research question with several research objectives, that are aimed at describing how you are going to achieve your target.
eg: What effect does conducting alcohol checks regularly have on the number of people who drive after drinking? Different research objectives under this research question can be
To determine the number of alcohol check posts in the city.
To analyse the impact of severity of punishment on getting caught by police etc.
A Research objective with several research questions: In this, there is a research objective with several research questions to serve the same purpose as before. The ATM example in the previous lecture is a research objective with several research questions.



Originality in research
-----------------------
Originality in research means that the particular research has not been performed before by anybody else. You learnt in the lecture that this is one of the most important requirements for your research paper to get published. 

Maintaining Originality: 
A. Reading good research papers like Wikipedia articles, survery papers,reading publications with high level introductions to your topic etc...
Survery papers generally provide technical overview of the related research areas with detailed analysis and discussions of the same theories, topics, trends and techniques.
Survey papers main objective is to act as a guide to the wide variety of research publications on a particular topic by citing sufficient number of relevant publications in various journal and books
however survey papers should be read as practiceionars guide to recent research. We should not expect every technique/concept to be clearly explained
A good stratergy is to read survery paper is to read all the relevant text book to get a better clarity

B. Once you have the general idea of the published content in your specific research area, we should start writing a literature review
Writing literature review helps in gaining details with limitations and successes of the published work
This is same as writing the survey for earlier published work in a particular area with the detailed discussion on the relevant theories, topics, trends and techniques
By writing the literature review, we get acquainted with relevant technical details along with limitations and successes of published work

C. While writing the literature review, we should also Maintain the list of original research questions. Along with good stratergies to investigate them further


A research project can be original in terms of:
- Tools, techniques, procedures and methods used;
- Exploring an unknown area;
- Exploring something unanticipated; and
- Using data in a novel way.

 Tools, techniques, procedures and methods used -  The work is original, if the tools and techniques is applied to context where they are not tried before. 
This process can be used for developing new tools/procedures/methods. It can also be termed original if these tools and techniques can be applied to an already existing problems (or) to a context where they have not been tried before. 

Exploring an unknown area -  The work is original, if an unknown area is discoverd while conducting research.
We can venture into unexplored research areas and discover a new field of research while conducting it. Example of reveleant investigation of an unknown area is Euler's introduction of a graph theory. 

Exploring something unanticipated - The work is original, if an unaticipated result occurs while investigating a problem. 
While investigating a problem, we might accidently come across an un-anticipated result (or) research direction. For example, Alexander Fleming discovery of the enzyme Penicillin, louis pasteur discovery of Cholera Vacccine. In some cases like before, it is worth to investigate the unexpected but in other cases you should be cautious as it might lead to a dead end

Using data in a novel way -  The work is original, if the dataset is interpreted in a different manner from existing research project. 
The task of collecting new dataset from scratch is an original project which involves a team of good researchers. This method also required the same protocol of the data collection, cleansing data, coding and analyzing data etc..

Scientific & social research
-------------------------------
Scientist conduct researches on the physical aspect of the universe whereas social scientist conduct researches to study the social behaviour of human beings. 
In both the types of researches scientists use different methods corresponding to the research. Social scientist carry out social research which can be either qualitative or quantitative and scientific research is used in natural sciences where the methods mostly used are quantative.

Social Research:
----------------
A. It investigates the human behaviour in their social life
B. Qualitative approach mainly depends on the quality of participant communication and observation with research participants
C. Quantitative approach relies more on the quantity i.e., statistical data 
Sometimes social research may be bias and subjective but with the new research methodologies the findings have become more objective and to the point.

Scientific Research:
--------------------
A. It is closely related to natural sciences like physics, chemistry etc..
B. It is more objective, accurate and can be repeated anytime
C. In this, the variables under consideration are less prone to change over time

Both scientific and social research areas are significant. The only catch is the researcher needs to ensure that while conducting the research he/she should follow a transparent and a systematic path in an unbiased way to get the desired result

Data, Information and Knowledge:
--------------------------------

Data: It is basically a collection of unprocessed facts without any analysis or added interpretation. Following are some examples of data:
- The price of crude oil.
- Marks scored by each student in a class.

Information: When data is organised to extract something meaningful, the resulting output is called information. For example:
- The price of crude oil has increased from $50 per barrel to $60 per barrel.
- The average maths score of the students in a class has dropped from 85/100 to 72/100.
- These are pieces of information that have been extracted from the available data.

Knowledge: This refers to a combination of experience, information and different insights that can benefit an individual or an organisation. It is acquired through experience and learning.  Examples:
- Petrol prices will rise by approximately ₹1 per litre due to an increase in crude oil prices from $50 per barrel to $60 per barrel. 
- A relatively difficult paper might be the reason for the fall in the average marks of the class.


Identifying the Suitable Research Objective - I
------------------------------------------------

the research objectives should be of the state of the art, it should be following from a good literature review  and it should follow the SMART acronym

- Finding the research objective is the biggest challenge in research because a good research objective is going to make research much more reliastic and much more enjoyable. Poorly state of things will make much more difficult in the end

- Objective of Research Objective : 
 A. Identify the State-of-the-Art (SOA): 
     i. Masters projects are required to be at State of the Art (SOA) of the publications in your area. Your master project should be at the level of current best practice in your area of study
     ii. Comprehensive Literature Review
     iii. Access to Literature review
It is possible to track a publication forward in time through the lists of papers that have cited it. This enables a good paper to be followed-up for more recent related research.
B. Conduct a literature review
C. Be realistic ! Your objectives need to be SMART

He mentions that masters projects are required to be at the state of the art (SoA). The SoA is established by a comprehensive literature review.

A good literature review needs to have access to the latest research.
Good sources include Google Scholar but better still Scopus and Web of Science. Access is available through LJMU e-library resources. It is possible to track a publication forward in time through the lists of papers that have cited it. This enables a good paper to be followed-up for more recent related research.

Identifying the Suitable Research Objective - II
------------------------------------------------
- How to Organize Literature Review Well:
	A. Each Row consisting each research paper
	B. Each column for several bullet points

	C. Your objectives need to be realistic in terms of the required data access, software and computation power
		i. Access to data, software and computation power
		ii. If there are data governance issues such as NDAs, this needs to be resolved
		iii. Ethical approval for questionarnaries involved
	D. Being aware that the predictive power is in the data
	E. Methods need to extract this power
	F. If the data lacks predictive power, there is little you can do to change this
	G. It is important to have a fall-back position while setting the research objective

You need to be aware that the predictive power is in the data, and methods need to extract this power; however, if the data lacks predictive power, there is little you can do to change this.
Therefore, it is important to have a fall-back position.

Research objectives should be SMART:
S - Specific
	i. State what you'll do
	ii. Use action words
M - Measurable
	i. Provide a way to evaluate
	ii. Use metrics or data targets
A- Achievable
	i. Within your scope
	ii. Possible to accomplish, attainable
R- Relevant
	i. Makes sense within your job function
T- Time Bound
	i. State when you'll get it done
	ii. Be specific on date or timeframe

- Aspects to consider while setting research objectives:
	i. Well structured literature review
	ii. Gaps in current knowledge
	iii. Set a realistic objective using the SMART acronym


Characteristics of Research:
------------------------------
The seven characteristics of authentic research are as follows:

1. Systematic: It should be conducted systematically. It should start with a problem or a question that needs to be answered and move towards completion, step by step.
	Research procedures should be performed in a logical sequence

2. Valid and verifiable: The conclusions of the research study should be correct and verified by the researcher as well as other scholars of same field. 
	Research conclusions should be verified to be valid by other researchers

3. Controlled: It means that all variables, except those that are tested or experimented upon, are kept constant.
	Research variables should be kept constant or under control for proper result

4. Rigorous: It means that the procedures followed to conduct research are relevant, appropriate and justified.
	Research procedures should be relevant and appropriate

5. Empirical: It means that any conclusion drawn from the research is based on hard evidence.
	Research conclusions should be based upon hard evidence

6. Critical: It means that critical scrutiny of the research procedures and methods is crucial. The investigation process must be foolproof and should not have any drawbacks
	It means that critical scrutiny of the research procedurs is mandatory

7. Contribution: Every time research is conducted on a particular topic, it should add some new insights to the topic.
	Research should contribute to the world's global body of knowledge

Importance of a Good Research Question
---------------------------------------
A research problem refers to any difficulty experienced by researchers in a practical or theoretical situation and requires a solution.
The research problem to be investigated must be clear and unambiguous, as it will help in differentiating between relevant and irrelevant data and also help you save time. An adequately defined set of research questions will enable the researcher to formulate a set of good objectives.

A good research problem should possess the following characteristics:

1. Feasible: It refers to the possibility of conducting a research in terms of resources, cost, means and time to complete the study.

2. Novel: The research problem should be novel and original. 

3. Relevant: It is essential to frame questions that can be useful and relevant to an individual or an organisation.

4. Ethical: The research problem should meet ethical boundaries, i.e., It should remain within the confines of the ethical ways of conducting research.

5. Narrowed down and interesting: Your research problem should not be too broad. It should narrow down to a specific research area.

Power bi complete topics:
-------------------------

Day	Theme	Topics	Subtopics	# Hours	Remarks
1	Essentials of Power BI	Introduction to Power BI	"1. Introduction to Power BI paltform
2. First Experience of Power BI Desktop
3. Power BI Website- Web Browser
4. Introduction to Power BI Components: Power Query, Power Pivot, Power View, and Power Q&A."		
2	Essentials of Power BI	Getting Data and Transformation	"1. What is Power Query:Data Mash-Up Engine of Power BI
2. Versions of Power Query
3. Query Editor
4. Transformation GUI
5. Get Started with Power Query: Covid19 Data Mash-Up
6. Power BI Get Data from Excel"		
3	Essentials of Power BI	Data Modelling and DAX basics	"1. Power BI xVelocity engine basics 
2. Relationships, Hierarchies and Formatting
3. Sorting by other columns
4. Date Table
5. Introduction to DAX
6. Calculated Columns, Measures, and Calculated Tables"		
4	Essentials of Power BI	Getting started with Data Visualization	"1. Power BI Desktop Visualization
2. Visual Formatting in Power BI Desktop
3. Charts and Visuals in Power BI, Sorting, Filtering, and categorization
4. Custom Visuals in Power BI Desktop
5. Maps and Geo-Spatial Visualization"		
5	Essentials of Power BI	Visualization Contd.	"1. Basic Charts; Bar and Column Charts
2. Clustered vs. Stacked Charts
3. Quick Measures in Power BI
4. Drill Down and Up using visuals and hierarchies
5. Pages & Q&A for Reports"		
6	Essentials of Power BI	Data Slicing and Dicing	"
1. Scopes of Filters: Visual Level, Page Level, Report Level
2. Modes of Filtering: Basic, Advanced, Relative, Top N
3. Drill through Page Filter: Creating master-details page scenario in Power BI
4. Types of Slicers; Date, Text, Number
5. Slicer Formatting
6. Syncing Slicer between Pages"		
7	Essentials of Power BI	Advanced Visualization	"1. Report Page Tooltip
2. Controlling the interaction of Visuals in a page
3. Designing Power BI reports for Mobile
4. Grouping and Binning
5. Bookmark; saving the state of a page
6. Buttons; action items
7. Selection pane; visibility control in Power BI
8. Golden triangle; Bookmark, button, and selection pane
9. Colour theme or pallets in Power BI"		
8	Essentials of Power BI	Best Practice of Visuals	"1. Line Chart; Trend Analysis
2. Combo Charts; Different Scales in one graph
3. Ribbon Chart; Ranking
4. Waterfall Chart; Cashflow
5. Scatter Chart; Storytelling with the data
6. Grouping charts: Pie, Donut chart, and Treemap charts
7. KPI visual
8. Gauge
9. Card Visual
10. Table and Matrix; showing the numbers with conditional formatting"		
9	Essentials of Power BI	Power BI Services	"1. Basic Sharing and using workspaces in Power BI web site
2. Dashboard vs. Report
3. Power Q&A
4. Mobile Dashboard Design
5. Row Level Security
6. Schedule Refresh vs. Other types of connections
7. Gateway’s Role in the Service"		
10	Essentials of Power BI	Custom Visuals	"1. Adding and using a custom visual
2. Infographic Designer
3. Tachometer Gauge
4. Map custom visuals
5. Certified custom visuals
6. Hierarchy Slicer
7. Play Axis"		
11	Essentials of Power BI	Geo Location Visualization	"1. Using Bing to find spots - Map Visuals
2. Address Details Fine Tuning  
3. Map Visual; Using Latitude and Longitude
4. Filled Map; Regions and Polygons
5. Data Category importance for the filled map
6. Shape Map; Having custom map visual
7. ArcGIS Map; Map visual which can do everything"		
12	Data Modeling with Power BI	Relationships in PowerBI	"1. What are relationships in Power BI
2. one-to-many, many-to-one, many-to-many, and one-to-one relationships
3. Direction of the relationship?
4. role-playing dimension and inactive relationships
5. relationships based on multiple columns"		
13	Data Modeling with Power BI	Dimensional modeling	"1. Data preparation
2. What is dimension table?
3. What is fact table and different types of it?
4. Need of date dimension?
5. Power BI default or custom date table
6. What is star-schema?"		
14	Data Modeling with Power BI	Star schema in Modeling	"1. Combining dimension tables
2. Creating shared dimension
3. Combine tables or create relationships?
4. What fields to hide?
5. Build your first star-schema
6. One dimension filters another dimension"		
15	Data Modeling with Power BI	Data modeling Best Practices	"1. DAX or M?
2. Row-based calculation or aggregations?
3. Calculated tables
4. Measures Vs. Calculated columns
5. Move shared tables to dataflows
6. Shared datasets and how to use it
7. Reducing the size of the model
8. Important consideration about dates in Power BI"		
16	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Data Types and Data Structures	"1. Introduction to Power Query ;Query Editor; Get Data from Web
2. Basic Transformations
3. Get Data from Excel
4. Use First Row As Headers / Use Headers as First Row
5. Get Data from SQL Server
6. Base data structures in Power Query
7. Get Data from JSON ;Transforming Table, Record, and List
8. Data Types in Power Query
9. Query Operations
10. Enable Load; Performance Boost
11. Query Operations; Duplicate, and Reference"		
17	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Combine Queries	"1. Dimensional Modelling; Designing the data model
2. Append, creating a single big query of the same structure
3. Merge; Joining queries when the structure is different
4. Joins in Merge
5. Tips for Merge or Append"		
18	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Power Query Editor	"1. Groups; Folders in Query Editor
2. Steps Operations
3. Splitting query steps
4. Moving steps up or down
5. Add as new query / Drill Down ,Undo!"		
19	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Rows and Column Operations	"1. Row Operations; Removing rows ;Row Operations; Keeping rows; Remove/Keep Errors; Remove/Keep Duplicates
2. Using Remove/Keep combination for troubleshooting report
3. Filtering based on Individual values
4. The dilemma of the basic filtering
5. Advanced Filtering & Sorting
6. Column Operations ; Choosing Columns ; Removing Columns
7. Data Type Change
8. Locale consideration for the data type
9. Replace Values; Fill Down/Up"		
20	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Table Transformations	"1. Group By; Changing the granularity of the data table
2. Group by Advanced
3. Scripting and Group by; First and Last item in each group
4. Transpose; rows to columns and reverse
5. Pivot; changing the name-value structure to columns
6. Unpivot; changing the budget column structure to rows"		
21	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Text & Numeric Transformations	"1. Split Column by Delimiter
2. Split Column by number of Characters
3. Split into rows instead of columns
4. Merge (Concatenate)
5. Format
6. The difference between Clean and Trim
7. Parse (XML or JSON)
8. Extract part of the text
9. Standard transformations; Divide, Integer-divide, Multiply, Add etc.
10 . Scientific transformations; logarithm, power square, etc.
11. Statistics transformations;
12. Rounding
13. Information functions; Is Even, Is Odd, and Sign.
14. Dealing with faults in Numeric calculations
"		
22	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Date and Time Transformations	"1. Date Transformations (Year, Month, Quarter, Week, etc.)
2. Extending Fiscal Date Column
3. Time Transformations (Hour, Minute, Second, etc.)
4. Adding Time/Date banding
5. Duration Transformation and Data Type
6. Local Date or Time
7. Time zone consideration for Power BI"		
23	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Structured Column Transformations	"1. What is a Structured Column?
2. Expand and Aggregate: Performance Consideration
3. Add Column vs. Transform?
4. Add Column with a Transformation
5. Index Column: Row Number
6. Conditional Column
7. Add Column by Example; When you don’t know which transformation to use
8. Add Custom Column: Generic"		
24	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Functions and Parameters	"1. Defining Parameters
2. Using Parameters in an existing query
3. Advanced GUI for parameters
4. Creating Function from a query
5. Invoking the sample function
6. Add Column Transform: Invoke Custom Function"		
25	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Power Query Language: M	"1. What is M? and the importance of learning M
2. M Syntax
3. End of the line
4. Variable Names
5. Special Characters
6. Escape Character
7. Step by Step Coding
8. Literals
9. Function Call
10. Comments"		
26	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Advanced M Scripting	"1. Primitive Value
2. List
3. Record
4. Table
5. Function
6. Navigating through List and List functions
7. Navigating through Record and Record functions
8. Navigating through Table and table functions
9. Concatenating lists and records
10. #Shared Keyword; function library of Power Query
11. Parameters in the code
12. Custom Functions through scripting
13. Generators in Power Query: Implementing Loop Structure
14. EACH: singleton function
15. Sample Custom Function: Day Number of Year Custom Function"		
27	Power Query: Powerful data manipulation tool	Error Handling & Performance Tips and Tricks 	"1. Enable Load; Simple, but Efficient
2. Reducing Number of Columns
3. Query Folding
4. Grouping and Aggregation; Performance Consideration
5. Merge; Before and After, things to Consider
6. Keep/Remove Errors; Troubleshooting report
7. Count Rows
8. Reference/Duplicate
9. Replace Errors
10. Data Type considerations"		
28	Advanced Power BI : DAX	Introduction to DAX	"1. Syntax of DAX
2. Naming in DAX
3. Operators and Operands
4. Logical Operations
5. Data Types in Power BI Model
6. Overview of Functions in DAX
7. Variables
8. DAX or M? When to use Which?"		
29	Advanced Power BI : DAX	DAX Calculations	"1. Calculated Column; Row by Row
2. Measure; Single Output
3. Calculated Table; A derived table
4. Calculated Column.
5. Measures are Dynamic
"		
30	Advanced Power BI : DAX	DAX Functions	"1. Aggregation Functions
2. Implicit Measures vs. Explicit Measures
3. Sum of an Expression: SumX
4. Iterator Functions
5. Difference between SUM and SUMX"		
31	Advanced Power BI : DAX	Filter, Evaluation Contexts and Conditional Sum	"1. ALL , Filter Functions to be used inside other functions
2. ALL and SUMX; Percentage Calculation
All Except
Filter Function: Custom Filter
Values/Distinct; getting a unique list of values
3. Row Context
4. Filter Context
5. Exception for Row Context
6. Exception for Filter Context
7. Calculate Function
8. Conditional Sum; Three ways of Implementing; pros and Cons
9. Variables in DAX and using them for debugging"		
32	Advanced Power BI : DAX	Relationship Functions	"1. Related: Many to one
2. RelatedTable: Sub table that can be used as a filter
3. CrossFilter: Changing Direction of relationship
4. UseRelationship: using an inactive relationship
5. TreatAS function"		
33	Advanced Power BI : DAX	Time Intelligence & Dynamic DAX	"1. Choosing the Date Table: Built-in or Customized Date Table
2.Mark as Date Table
3.Year to Date, Quarter to Date
4.Fiscal Year to Date
5.Same Period Last Year
6.Year over Year Comparison
7.ParallelPeriod vs SamePeriodLastYear vs DateAdd
8.Running Total
9.Rolling 12 Month Sales
10.Average 12 Month Sales
11.Rolling 6 Months
12.Flexible time banding
13. Time zone consideration in Power BI
14.Numeric Parameter Definition through GUI
15. GenerateSeries DAX function
16. SelectedValue DAX function
17. Sample Scenario: Customer Retention with Dax and Power BI
18.Other Types of Parameters? Parameter Table
19. SWITCH
20. Forecast (Linear, Logarthmic, etc.)"		
34	Advanced Power BI : DAX	Parent-Child Functions & Best Practices	"1. Organizational Hierarchy or Chart of Accounts: unknown levels
2. Path function
3. PathLength: getting the number of levels
4. PathItem: finding a specific level
5. PathItemReverse
6. PathContains: Security Pattern
7. LookupValue: To get the other related fields
8. Modelling Best Practices
9. Understanding when to switch between Power Query and DAX
10. Considerations for very large tables
Power BI Helper
"		
35	Power BI  Data Architecture & Administration	Power BI Services	"Power BI Components
Power BI Service Content; Dashboard, Report, and Dataset
Dashboard Features in the service
What is Gateway?
Two types of Gateway; On-premises, Personal
Configuration and Installation of Gateway
Import Data and Schedule Refresh
DirectQuery Connection
Live Connection
Composite Model"		
36	Power BI  Data Architecture & Administration	Sharing	"Basic Dashboard or Report Sharing
Workspaces in Power BI; Dev Environment
Power BI Apps; User Environment
Publish to Web
Embed in SharePoint Online; Office 365 Integrated Sharing
Power BI Embedded; Embedding content into another application
Comparison of all Sharing methods
App Scheduling
Sharing PowerBI reports with users (excel, .ppt,. pdf, etc.) "		
37	Power BI  Data Architecture & Administration	Security & Administration	"Row Level Security
Dynamic Row Level Security
Patterns for Dynamic Row Level Security
Manager Level Access
Organization Chart Access as Dynamic Row Level Security
Profiles and Users; Dynamic Row Level Security
Dynamic Row Level Security using SQL Server Analysis Service Live Connection
Power BI Administrator Configuration
Usage Metrics
Customizing Usage Metrics"		
38	Power BI  Data Architecture & Administration	Integration & Architecture	"PowerPoint Integration with Power BI
Power BI and Excel; More than just an Integration
Power BI Report Server: Power BI on-premises
SQL Server Reporting Services Integration with Power BI
Real-time Streaming with Power BI, and Azure Stream Analytics
Power BI REST API
Architecture for Enterprise Scale
Architecture for Sharing
Architecture for Self-Service"		
39	Power BI  For AI Engineers	Programming in PowerBI	"Python functions with PowerBI
R Scripting with PowerBI"		
40	Power BI  For AI Engineers	PowerBI Azure Machine Learning	Power BI and Azure Machine Learning		
41	Power BI  For AI Engineers	Functions & Visuals	"AI visuals in Power BI
AI functions in Power Query"		
42	Qlik to PowerBI Migration	Qlik to PowerBI Migration			
43	End to End PowerBI Case Study	In Office Training	End to End Healthcare Case Study		

